[Music]
hey everyone time for another episode of
demonstifying digital
we've got sam with us we've always got
sam sam and russ this is our thing hi
sam ain't nothing like a chicken wing
i'm good mate how are you
really good really good love the bad
jokes just keep them rolling
yeah what have you got for us today
let's have an analogy i want to tell
my my mum-in-law what i did today what
am i going to tell him
go so we've got seo search engine
optimization
versus ppc so pay-per-click ads
this is one that i read many years ago
and i like to use it so when i'm
speaking to clients they might not
understand digital marketing or they
might not quite understand what the
difference between seo
and pay-per-click is um so a very quick
explanation seo is basically the organic
process of getting your website to page
one
of google results in the organic and
unpaid listings and pay-per-click
uh when referred to google is the the
ads you've got at the top
or the bottom of your search results so
i like to say pay-per-click
is a bit like renting a property so as
long as you pay your rent
each and every month you're good you're
staying there but the moment you stop
paying
you're kicked out you're out on your ass
and in this case you're no longer listed
on google so no one can see your ads
yeah whereas seo search engine
optimization is like a mortgage
so it's a long term investment it's it's
not going to be quick
it's not going to take weeks it's going
to take some time to
get you slowly to the top of google
your seo usually takes months and months
and months and then over time depending
on how competitive the search term is
you'll get to that number one top spot
and uh in the mortgage case you'll own
the property
or in an seo term you'll actually own
the the page one of google
yeah so you have you'll have that
position which means you're gonna get
more web
traffic more brand visibility more trust
and crucially more more leads and sales
through to your site so that's that's
what is ppc renting
seo uh mortgage i love it i love it i
love to cause like you know ppc if you
think about renting like
i want to live on the most expensive
street in the biggest house
in the coolest neighborhood cool that's
a really competitive search term so he's
going to pay top dollar for that
and as soon as you start paying top
dollar you're out
yeah great ad man great yeah yeah
whereas mortgage-wise yeah you've built
that it's earned media you've earned
your way there
you know they've got those you've got
your renters who live in your street who
you're looking at and go oh geez
yeah you know they're bringing the value
of our pricing down whatever but
you've earned your way there you're not
leaving yeah just to add you can do both
so just like renting a property or or
owning a property you perhaps have a
mortgage on one property and if you've
got the cash fare
yeah then you could you could rent out
your other property just like in digital
marketing
if you're if you're a brand or a company
you can be doing pay-per-click for
short-term results and that's
your long-term gains yep spot-on love it
great analogy thanks sam
cheers